mutton chop masala
[Music]
hey welcome to singing cook my name is
shepherd pal and watching me cook mutton
chop masala interesting isn't it
their recipe itself is very interesting
little lamby not so lengthy I would say
but cooking yes because you are cooking
button definitely would be lengthy and
you're not using a pressure cooker
remember if you are cooking mutton chop
masala please don't use a pressure
cooker because when you share the Martin
saute the mutton along with all the
spices it needs to be cooked slowly
there's no addition of water in this
that's the most important thing vessel
up here on the gas range oil at least 3
tablespoons of oil you cook mutton the
oil that you require has to be more one
teaspoon of black peppercorns small
cardamom 5 6 of the same cloves at least
four of them and a small piece of
cinnamon let they sit in here I've got
some sliced onion
okay now the sliced onion is at least if
you're using say around 500 grams of
lamb chops cleaned one bone single bone
as I have here single bone lamb chops
clean about 500 grams of them you need 3
onions sliced now as this heats up let
me take a small piece of ginger and cut
Julianne's of the same so refer to at
home if you were to measure this up
probably half an inch of ginger cut
slices and then Julianne's there you go
green chillies 3 of them
slit them up keep this aside ok don't
need them at this point of time after
some time as you smell the fragrance you
get this fragrance of the spices add the
onions
saute the onions until they are
translucent now this would take about
three to four minutes okay and then I'm
going to add the lamb chops I'm not
going to brown them because you need to
cook the lamb chops along with this very
important so cook the onions until
translucent as the onions get sorted
what's important is this point of time
you see they turn little pink and
translucent you know that's when the
sweetness you know has been there it's
become it's not any more sharp its
little sweet so you need to add lamb
chops to this now whenever you cook
mutton the thumb rule says that whatever
quantity of mutton you take you must
take equal quantities of onion that's a
simple tip which I have learned from you
know old cooks who've been masters of
Indian food they've taught me this that
okay you know you're cooking mutton
equal quantities of onion and lamb chops
or mutton whatever you're cooking so
that is the thumb rule here now share
this on high clave and to this go to add
one tablespoon of ginger and garlic
paste okay next is salt to taste the
ginger and green chillies into this
there you go now cook this keep stirring
keep cooking this can cover this also
don't add water keep cooking and keep
stirring this and this approximately for
20 minutes this is what you have to do
so stirring and cooking stirring and
cooking so that it doesn't stick no
water added remember this there's no
water to be added no other things to be
added so I'll keep cooking
keep stirring in between for 20 minutes
at least now after about 20 minutes I
have been stirring now you see why I
didn't ground the onions because I'm not
adding water at all and you see what's
happened is the onions are also nicely
browned the mutton has been nicely
shirred and almost about half cooked at
this point of time I'm going to add the
dry spices red chili powder a little bit
of turmeric powder garam masala 1/2 TSP
now and 1/2 TSP later ok that's what I
am going to do so dry spices all of them
Wow look at this and now add the
tomatoes about 2 tomatoes Puri is what
I've added super the mutton is only
going to get cooked after about 35
minutes of cooking so what you need to
do is cover this and keep stirring in
between again if at all at home you feel
that no while I am cooking the mutton is
sticking to the pan you can keep adding
little water I would avoid it
I would rather simmer it you know put
the flame to the lower side and keep
cooking slowly will take a little longer
time maybe around 40 minutes total to
cook a good Martin but that's what the
taste will be that's when you will enjoy
this mutton chop masala beautiful dry
okay so keep cooking this for another
10-15 minutes dry if at all I need water
I'll keep adding little at a time not
too much just to protect the mutton not
from sticking to the pan okay
that's what you need to do now after
about 10 minutes again what I need to do
is look at this
beautiful I did add little bit of water
not too much finally I need to add some
yogurt there goes the yogurt this is
just to tone down the chilies that's
what I'm going to do just to tone down
the chilies juice of half a lime
finally the garam masala 1/2 teaspoon
into this take 2 sprigs of wind remove
the leaves and add to this
keep stirring keep cooking for about 3
to 4 minutes and as it becomes dry the
yogurt also completely dries up mutton
is absolutely ready shops are just
divine all you need to do is remove all
the chops in a pan remove all the chops
in a serving dish that you want to serve
the chops in now what do you see here is
dry masala chops you need to have some
patience while cooking this little water
keep stirring keep stirring if you can
avoid water the best thing because then
the taste of mutton will be the best but
in case you think no it's sticking keep
adding little water and cook until the
mutton is nice and soft and the masala
is absolutely dry and serve it just like
this get over in a jiffy I am Telling
You the moment you serve everybody is
going to jump on to this
you